WIP: blog/content/post/2024-08-07-odroid-h4-analysis.md: Add second p… (#601)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2024-08-07-odroid-h4-analysis.md

are coming from GPIOs `GPP_E18` and `GPP_E19`. It is worth taking a note when
we will get to the actual coding.

To verify whether these display lines are really used, check the page that is
written as a number in the square brackets near the `[18] DDI0_TXP3`, the
`[19] DDI1_TXP3` and the `TCP0_3P [20]`. On the page 18 we can see the port A
signals really lead to the HDMI connector:

![ODROID HDMI](/img/odroid/odroid_sch_hdmi1.png)

Besides the HDMI connector, there is also a chip `PS8409A`:

![ODROID HDMI Retimer](/img/odroid/odroid_sch_hdmi2.png)

if you are curious what it is, search it up in the internet. You should be
able to quickly [find it](https://www.paradetech.com/products/ps8409a/). So,
basically it is a HDMI™ 2.0 Jitter Cleaning Repeater / Retimer, which is not
of much importance to us.

Respectively on page 19 the port B signals lead to the Display Port connector:

![ODROID DP1](/img/odroid/odroid_sch_dp1.png)

From the caption `DP_HDMI_CONN1A` we should know it is the Display Port
coupled together with the HDMI connector, which had a similar caption
`DP_HDMI_CONN1B`.

On the page 20 we can see that the Type-C port signals lead to another Display

> Port:

Reviewer: `DisplayPort`, single word

![ODROID DP2](/img/odroid/odroid_sch_dp2.png)

It means there will be no USB-C Thunderbolt functionality (no USB, PCIe and DP

> in one USB-C receptacle), just a pure Display Port mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in one USB-C receptacle), just a pure DisplayPort mode.
```

Let's go back to the page 4 and analyze the rest of its contents. There is a
small block worth our attention:

![ODROID DDI2](/img/odroid/odroid_sch_ddi1.png)

From this fragment we can deduct the following:

- GPIOs: H0, H1, H2, B3, B4, E3, E7, F7 and F10 are not used, and should be
  not connected in the code.
- GPIO B14 is used as a SATA LED

On page 5 we have the RAM memory signals which lead to page 12. On page 12 we
may find the connector for the DDR5 SODIMM slot as the main caption on top of
the page says. And that's all we have to know about the memory in this design.
It is only a single slot (there are no more slots on ODROID board and Alder
Lake N memory controller supports only one DDR4/DDR5 DIMM - see [section 16 of
Alder Lake-N
datasheet](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/content-details/759603/intel-processor-and-intel-core-i3-n-series-datasheet-volume-1-of-2.html)).

On page 6 we have SPI/ESPI/SMBUS block:

![ODROID SPI](/img/odroid/odroid_sch_spi.png)

> We can see that SPI0 (the BIOS SPI interface), ESPi and SMBUS are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can see that SPI0 (the BIOS SPI interface), eSPI and SMBUS are used.
```

and also other instances

  useful if the firmware stores some information in CMOS. Dumping it across
  boots may reveal some BIOS implementation details.
- `result` - a file with results of dumping each information type from the
  system, integral part of HCL Report, not used for porting
- `superiotool` - another crucial file. If you system has a Super I/O chip,
  like ODROID, it dumps the configuration registers of said chip. If you don;t
  have schematics for the platform, you are probably doomed without the log
  from superiotool.
- `touchpad` - it is a result of a
  [script](https://github.com/Dasharo/meta-dts/blob/main/meta-dts-distro/recipes-dts/reports/touchpad-info/touchpad-info),
  which tries to probe information about touchpads connected to I2C. Rather
  useful on laptops, not board like ODROID.
- `tpm_version` - contains information about TPM module read from
  `/sys/class/tpm/tpm*`. Tell us if any TPM module is connected/used on the
  board. ODROID has no discrete TPM module, but it can still use fTPM.

I will now go through the most important files and explain why we need it and
how to use it,

### SMBIOS information

> TBD

Reviewer: Any plans to fill these in?

Author: Yes, when I find time to finish the post
